Add improving performance with current limits article (#156)
CrossTheRoadElec/Phoenix6-Documentation: source/docs/hardware-reference/talonfx/improving-performance-with-current-limits.rst

Improving Performance with Current Limits
=========================================

> Current-limiting, is the process of reducing and eliminating motor output when a given current has surpassed a limit. There are 3 types of current limits available: supply, stator, and torque. Each of these limits accomplishes different goals. This article goes over how to configure those limits, when to configure them and why current limiting is important.

Reviewer: "Current limiting is the process of restricting motor output when..."
"There are two types of current limits available: supply and stator." (torque is not really a current limit, it's just peak output settings like peak voltage)

.. note:: By default, devices are not configured with any current limits. This is because the optimal limits depend on how the motor is integrated into the system. There are additional safety measures in place to prevent damage to the motor or motor controller under excessive load.

> Supply, Stator and Torque Limits

Reviewer: Supply and Stator Limits

--------------------------------

> It's important to understand how current limits work. When a motor is under a load, it takes an increasing amount of current to continue rotating the shaft of the motor (and by extension the mechanism). When integrating multiple motors into a system (such as an FRC robot), this increase current draw can drain batteries, reset fuses, blow breakers, or even damage the battery.

Reviewer: "It's important to understand the need for current limits and how they work."

> There exists 3 forms of current limiting: supply, stator and torque. For all limits, the following :ref:`configs <docs/tuner/configs:tuner configs>` apply. In the below example, replace ``Supply`` with ``Stator``.

Reviewer: "There exists two forms of current limiting: supply and stator."

.. note:: Limits for torque based control modes should be applied with ``Peak Forward Torque Current`` and ``Peak Reverse Torque Current`` instead.

- ``SupplyCurrentLimit``
- ``SupplyCurrentLimitEnable``

All limits must be enabled using the appropriate enable config.

Supply Limits
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. note:: Supply limits are not functional in torque based control modes. Use the peak torque current configs instead.

> When ``SupplyCurrentThreshold`` has elapsed for ``SupplyTimeThreshold`` amount of time, it will lower motor output until it's within range of the current limit (see the above section on examples of these configs).

Reviewer: "it will ~~lower~~ reduce"

Supply current limits are useful to prevent fuses from reseting and breakers from tripping. They are also effective at preventing brownouts and reducing overall current load on the battery.

Stator & Torque Limits
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. important::

   Stator current limits are only applicable in non-torque control modes. For example, a stator limit would have no affect if the current control mode is ``TorqueCurrentFOC``. Users utilizing torque based control modes should use ``Peak Forward Torque Current`` and ``Peak Reverse Torque Current`` configs instead, but the following documentation is still applicable.

> Stator current is the output current (and proportional to torque) of the motor. The stator current differs from supply current in that it's at a different voltage from the input.

Reviewer: "Stator current is the output current of the motor and is directly proportional to torque."

Also not sure I like the second section, I'd like to expand it out to mention Power In = Power Out and how the magnitude of stator current is always >= supply current.

Reviewer: Since power in = power out, V_supply * I_supply = V_stator * I_stator. Additionally, V_stator <= V_supply, which means that for the original equation to stay true, I_stator >= I_supply.

At 100% duty cycle they are equal, at every other duty cycle stator current is larger.

Author: I wonder if it would make sense to pull the supply current explanation further up here then?

.. note:: The below example ignores factors such as energy loss from heat or inefficiency.

> For example, if a motor is being applied with 50% dutycycle with :math:`80A`` of load (stator current), the resulting supply current will be :math:`40A`. If the motor has 100% dutycycle applied wth :math:`80A`` of stator current, the resulting supply current wll be :math:`80A`.

Reviewer: "...being applied with 80 A of measured stator current..."

.. figure:: images/stator-limit.png
   :alt: 80a stator limit being applied

   *80a torque limit taking affect*

> Stator limits apply the same limiting strategy used by supply limits, but are more effective in dealing with situations such as wheel slip or acceleration induced brownouts. The rationale behind it reducing acceleration induced brownouts is that initial acceleration is typically peak supply and stator current.

Reviewer: I wouldn't mention "the same limiting strategy", it's only the same in that it limits motor output.

> If a robot acceleration event draws :math:`100A` of supply current, it will only do so for a very small portion of the entire acceleration event up to a maximum velocity. During the acceleration event, the motor is likely not being commanded with 100% dutycycle. Therefore, if :math:`100A` are being drawn at supply at :math:`6V`, then output stator is around :math:`200A`. A :math:`100A` stator limit would cap the supply current at `50A` while being more efficient at not limiting the entire robot velocity.

Reviewer: I don't like the brownout mentions for stator current limit. It would be more valuable to demonstrate how stator current limits also have an impact on supply current draw. For example, an 80 A stator current limit results in ~15 A supply current at stall and 80 A at 4800 RPM, after which both currents drop rapidly.

Author: I focus pretty heavily on the assumption of 100% dutycycle means 1:1 stator/supply and 50% dutycycle means supply = stator / 2. 

I'm not sure how to phrase or refactor this paragraph to meet your suggestion.

Reviewer: Supply current limits, at least at low velocity, actually have less of a restriction on acceleration than stator limits, and they are more effective at preventing brownouts. For example, a 50 A supply limit here could allow for more than 100 A stator at stall.

While you can explain the relationship between the two currents using duty cycle out, it's hard to do the same for current limits, because the current limits are what restrict duty cycle out. Stator limits do so linearly, while supply is nonlinear. Voltage is the dependent variable here, velocity and current limit are the independent variables.

Reviewer: Oh lol I didn't actually mean for that to replace the text, that was more just me to you explaining why the original didn't feel right to me. I'll get something written up on Monday.

Using Limits to Improve Battery Longevity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

While supply limits can be estimated using battery datasheets and average mechanism current draw, the easiest method is to graph and reduce. By applying a conservative supply limit to mechanisms that can operate with minimal current draw, you can improve the performance of other mechanisms (e.g. capping your intake supply to increase the amount of current a swerve drivetrain can draw).

1. Plot a mechanism supply currents throughout the match
2. Reduce your supply current until your performance begins to suffer (unable to intake items, etc). Increase this value slightly for some comfort room.
3. Repeat this for all mechanisms on a fresh battery each time. Time how long it takes before brownouts are regular and battery capacity has dropped.

For example, a user may have the following mechanisms and supply limits.

- x4 Kraken(s) on swerve drive - 60A supply
- x4 Kraken(s) on swerve dzimuth - 20A supply
- x1 Kraken(s) on elevator - 30A supply
- x1 Kraken(s) on intake - 15A supply

> This would yield peak supply current of ~395A for a worst case scenario. This draw is extremely unlikely as peak supply is often extremely brief (for example, 60A on all 4 swerve drive motors will likely be for less than 5 seconds).

Reviewer: Also mention how it's unlikely because you're not going to be accelerating all mechanisms at the same time.

.. math::

   (60 * 4) + (20 * 4) + (30 * 1) + (15 * 1) \approx 365A

Reduce your limits until your battery life is in an acceptable range.

Using Limits to Reduce Brownouts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The same strategy for improving battery life is applicable to brownouts as well. In the above example, we can see that our peak draw is 365A. Brownouts occur when the robot voltage dips below a threshold (for the `FRC roboRIO <https://docs.wpilib.org/en/stable/docs/software/roborio-info/roborio-brownouts.html>`__, this threshold is around ~7V). When the roboRIO dips below 7V, it will disable all actuators to prevent a total robot reboot.

> As supply current increases, the battery voltage will decrease in a similar fashion. A simplified equation for modeling voltage sag is shown below along with a calculator.

Reviewer: Somewhere in here, it might be useful to emphasize how you won't be drawing peak currents from all mechanisms at the same time because you won't be accelerating all of them at the same time. So you really only need to balance budget across mechanisms that will be accelerating at the same time (such as all motors on a swerve drivebase).

   </script>

Be aware that battery health (in the form of battery resistance above) changes how much increased current draw effects the output voltage of the battery. Health of the battery can be roughly determined via a `battery beak <https://store.ctr-electronics.com/battery-beak/>`__ or a via a battery discharge test with a `battery analyzer <https://www.andymark.com/products/computerized-battery-analyzer>`__.

Using the above information, ensure your battery is healthy and that your supply current limits will prevent the battery sagging below 7V.

Using Limits to Reduce Wheel Slip
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Stator current limits are excellent at preventing wheel slip (thus increasing traction). To determine wheel slip, perform the following instructions.

1. Place the robot on carpet against a wall.
2. Begin plotting velocity and stator current in :doc:`Tuner X </docs/tuner/plotting>`.
3. Slowly increase dutycycle until the velocity becomes non-zero.

Set your stator limit to a value below the observed stator current in Tuner. In the below plot, you can see that the wheels began slipping at around 130A.

.. image:: images/slip-current.png
   :alt: wheel slip at 130A

> An interesting observation here is that supply current in the above graph was only around ~37A, this information helps provide real world evidence that stator current limits are effective at reducing brownouts.

Reviewer: I don't like this, that current is the *minimum* supply current while the motor is below ~4500 RPM.

Author: to be clear, because the change in velocity in the graph is very low?

Reviewer: Yep, that's essentially supply current at stall. But for a stator current limit, supply current starts at its lowest and increases as motor velocity increases.

Author: I'm working on getting a better plot. Would a plot that shows a drastic change in rotation velocity work?

Reviewer: The slip current plot is fine, it's just the statement after that's not quite correct. I would just remove it entirely and not plot supply current.

Determining Current Limits
--------------------------

While supply current limits can be theoretically estimated by calculating max supply draw for every mechanism, stator limits are not easy to estimate. Determine your stator current limits first, then supply only if necessary. In many cases, stator current limits are sufficient to prevent battery brownouts, as stator current limits also limit supply current.

Preventing Wheel Slip
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Stator current limits are excellent at preventing wheel slip, which is necessary to maximize power output of the system. To determine wheel slip, perform the following instructions:

1. Place the robot on carpet against a wall.
2. Begin plotting velocity and stator current in :doc:`Tuner X </docs/tuner/plotting>`.
3. Slowly increase voltage output until the velocity becomes non-zero and the stator current drops.

Set your stator current limit to a value below the observed stator current in Tuner. In the example below, the wheels began slipping at around 130 A.

.. image:: images/slip-current.png
   :alt: Wheel slip at 130 A stator current

Preventing Brownouts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The same strategy for improving battery life is applicable to brownouts as well. In the above example, we can see that our peak draw is 365 A. Brownouts occur when the robot voltage dips below a threshold (for the `FRC roboRIO <https://docs.wpilib.org/en/stable/docs/software/roborio-info/roborio-brownouts.html>`__, this threshold is around ~7 V). When the roboRIO dips below the threshold, it will disable all actuators to prevent a total robot reboot.

Reviewer: This paragraph no longer has the context of the battery life section. We may want to pull some of that up here.

Note that at this point in time, everything has stator limits but not supply, so peak current is weird.

Supply Limits
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. important:: Supply limits are not functional in torque based control modes. Use the ``PeakForwardTorqueCurrent`` and ``PeakReverseTorqueCurrent`` configs instead.

Supply current is the current drawn from the battery. As a result, limiting supply current can be useful to prevent fuses from resetting and breakers from tripping, as well as to improve the longevity of the battery.

.. tip:: Since stator current limits also limit supply current, it is often not necessary to enable both limits.

When the ``SupplyCurrentThreshold`` has elapsed for ``SupplyTimeThreshold`` amount of time, the supply current limiter will activate and reduce motor output until supply current is within range of the limit.

In the rare case where the robot experiences brownouts despite configuring stator current limits, a supply current limit can also further help avoid brownouts. However, such brownouts are most commonly caused by a bad battery or poor power wiring, so those should be examined first.

> How to Budget Limits

Reviewer: I think we should reorganize this section based on the order of steps teams should actually follow:
- Prevent wheel slip or damaging mechanism
- Limit heat buildup?
- Prevent brownouts
- Prevent breaker trips
- Improve battery longevity

2. Reduce your supply current until your performance begins to suffer (unable to intake items, etc). Increase this value slightly for some comfort room.
3. Repeat this for all mechanisms on a fresh battery each time. Time how long it takes before brownouts are regular and battery capacity has dropped.

For example, a user may have the following mechanisms and supply limits.

- x4 Kraken(s) on swerve drive - 60 A supply
- x4 Kraken(s) on swerve azimuth - 20 A supply
- x1 Kraken(s) on elevator - 30 A supply
- x1 Kraken(s) on intake - 15 A supply

This would yield peak supply current of ~365 A for a worst case scenario. This draw is extremely unlikely as peak supply current is often extremely brief (for example, 60 A on all 4 swerve drive motors will likely be for less than 2 seconds), and all mechanisms will not be under peak load at the same time. A more common scenario is 4 swerve drive motors accelerating at the same time for a peak supply current of 240 A.

.. math::

   (60 * 4) + (20 * 4) + (30 * 1) + (15 * 1) \approx 365\text{ A}

Reduce your limits until your battery life is in an acceptable range.

Preventing Brownouts

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: This section needs to be adjusted based on the "Stator and Supply Current Limits" section. In particular, I'm not sure the calculator makes sense now (nor do I see how to make it make sense).

We might want to make this section based more on experimental testing instead of theoretical because of stator limits. Theoretical only really works with supply limits.

Using the above information, ensure your battery is healthy and that your current limits will prevent the battery from sagging below 7 V.

Preventing Wheel Slip
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Stator current limits are excellent at preventing wheel slip (thus increasing traction). To determine wheel slip, perform the following instructions.

1. Place the robot on carpet against a wall.
2. Begin plotting velocity and stator current in :doc:`Tuner X </docs/tuner/plotting>`.
3. Slowly increase voltage output until the velocity becomes non-zero.

Set your stator current limit to a value below the observed stator current in Tuner. In the example below, the wheels began slipping at around 130 A.

.. image:: images/slip-current.png
   :alt: Wheel slip at 130 A stator current

Limiting Acceleration

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: Do we want a section on limiting acceleration? We already have one for wheel slip, and to me limiting acceleration is more a side effect than an intended use case; the primary goal is limiting torque moreso than acceleration.

I'm not sure if there's a way we can do it, but I'd like to somehow document using stator current limits to prevent mechanical damage (i.e. running into hard stops).

I think it would also be valuable to have a section on using stator current limits to prevent heat buildup in high-inertia systems such as a flywheel. I can gather data for some plots.

Improving Performance with Current Limits
=========================================

Current limiting is the process of restricting motor output when a given current has surpassed a limit. There are two types of current limits available: stator and supply. Each of these limits accomplishes different goals. This article goes over **why** current limiting is important, **when** to configure these limits, and **how** to configure them.

.. note:: By default, devices are not configured with any current limits. This is because the optimal limits depend on how the motor is integrated into the system. There are additional safety measures in place to prevent damage to the motor or motor controller under excessive load.

Stator and Supply Current Limits
--------------------------------

> It's important to understand the need for current limits and how they work. When a motor is under a load, it takes an increasing amount of current to continue rotating the shaft of the motor (and by extension the mechanism). When integrating multiple motors into a system (such as an FRC robot), this increase in current draw can drain batteries, reset fuses, trip breakers, or even damage the battery.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's important to understand the need for current limits and how they work. When a motor is under a load, it takes an increasing amount of current to continue rotating the shaft of the motor (and by extension the mechanism). The cumulative sum of all the currents in a multi-motor system, such as a robot, may excessively drain batteries, trigger brownout protection, or in the worst case trip breakers.
```

There are two forms of current limiting: stator and supply. The relevant :ref:`configs <docs/tuner/configs:tuner configs>` are located in the CurrentLimits config group (`Java <https://api.ctr-electronics.com/phoenix6/release/java/com/ctre/phoenix6/configs/CurrentLimitsConfigs.html>`__, `C++ <https://api.ctr-electronics.com/phoenix6/release/cpp/classctre_1_1phoenix6_1_1configs_1_1_current_limits_configs.html>`__, `Python <https://api.ctr-electronics.com/phoenix6/release/python/autoapi/phoenix6/configs/config_groups/index.html#phoenix6.configs.config_groups.CurrentLimitsConfigs>`__).

.. warning:: Current limits are not applied in torque based control modes, such as ``TorqueCurrentFOC``. Limits for torque based control modes should be applied with ``PeakForwardTorqueCurrent`` and ``PeakReverseTorqueCurrent`` instead. Torque current is equivalent to stator current in magnitude.

> All current limits must be separately enabled using the appropriate enable config.

Reviewer 2: Bold this? Or important it?

   This means that stator current limits also effectively limit supply current. Supply current will not exceed a stator current limit and is often significantly lower than stator current.

Another impact that stator current limits have is that they restrict acceleration. Stator current limits cap the torque output of the motor, which directly increases the amount of time it takes to accelerate to max velocity. As a result, it is important not to set stator current limits too low, otherwise performance may be negatively impacted.

.. grid:: 1 2 2 2
   :gutter: 3

   .. grid-item-card:: Without stator limit (~170 rotations/second²)

      .. image:: images/no-stator-limit-accel.png
         :alt: Graph with no stator limit applied and a peak accel around 170 rotations/second²

   .. grid-item-card:: With 80 A stator limit (~75 rotations/second²)

      .. image:: images/with-stator-limit-accel.png
         :alt: Graph with stator limit applied and a peak accel around 75 rotations/second²

Supply Limits
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. important:: Supply limits are not functional in torque based control modes. Use the ``PeakForwardTorqueCurrent`` and ``PeakReverseTorqueCurrent`` configs instead.

> Supply current is the current drawn from the battery. As a result, limiting supply current can be useful to prevent fuses from resetting and breakers from tripping, as well as to improve the longevity of the battery.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Supply current is the current drawn from the battery. As a result, limiting supply current can be useful to prevent breakers from tripping, as well as to improve the longevity of the battery.
```

- x1 Kraken(s) on elevator - 30A supply
- x1 Kraken(s) on intake - 15A supply

> This would yield peak supply current of ~365A for a worst case scenario. This draw is extremely unlikely as peak supply is often extremely brief (for example, 60A on all 4 swerve drive motors will likely be for less than 5 seconds) and all mechanisms won't be under peak load at the same time.

Reviewer: Maybe also mention something like "A more common scenario is driving all 8 swerve motors at the same time for a peak supply current of 320 A"
